After the initial call or even during
the initial call, towards the end,
or maybe it might be a separate call, you
might get a series of prescreen questions.
Usually these are the larger companies
that wanna kind of vet you out before you
get started, because interviewing someone
takes resources, it takes manpower.
It takes people that have to take time
out of their day to do these things.
So they wanna give prescreen questions,
say,
is this person at least a little bit
qualified to be a front-end engineer?
So I consider these base line
questions for JavaScript knowledge.
So let's fire them off.
What is the difference between const,
let, and var?
Anybody?
>> Scope.
>> More.
>> More on that?
>> Yeah,
yeah [LAUGH]
>> Var is global, generally.
Let is a little bit more narrow,
and const is fixed.
You'll get yelled at by some JS lent
rule if you try to change it later.
>> Okay, that was okay.
>> Okay
>> So have that each other.
It was okay.
Scope is a good way to finding it.
Var, I wouldn't say is global,
its global to whatever scope it but
it's not gonns leak outside.
But yes, const, it's not immutable,
people say it's immutable, but
we probably have different
definitions of immutable.
You can't point a const
to a different pointer.
But you can modify that,
you can add objects, or
you can add properties to an object,
things from array.
We can't change that pointer.
Let, you can change the pointer, but
it's only gonna be scoped
to whatever the closure is.
And var is hoisted to the top.
So const and let,
if you try to access them before
they're gonna throw a reference there,
var will just throw undefined.
Pretty simple.
These aren't trick questions.
It's just how fast and how comfortably
do you answer these questions?
Okay, there are wrong answers, but there
aren't as many wrong answers to this.
It's just like, does this person feel
confident in their JavaScript knowledge?
That's it, not a trick.
And as the interviewer,
you're not trying to trick them.
These aren't trick questions.
These aren't like one of trivia questions.
These are just like,
do you know what you're talking about?
Someone explain prototypical
inheritance to me?
Anybody, anybody at all.
>> I just did.
>> [LAUGH] All right, what's a prototype?
Nobody, this is funny engineering.
All right, nobody.
Yeah, take a shot.
>> I'll take a shot.
So when an object inherits
from another object,
if that object that it inherited
from has some functions or
properties, this new object,
it will have those.
>> Yeah, I'll take that.
Again, not a trick,
JavaScript has a prototype,
a baseline prototype of the object.
Everything inherits from the object,
so you can do all sorts of things.
Everything in JavaScript has a prototype,
it has a baseline object
that it inherits from.
And when you create a new object
based on the other object,
you can either inherit all those
properties, which you will be default, or
you can overwrite them with your own and
so on, and so forth.
The analogy I usually use,
it's not the best one.
It's pretty good,
is parents with children.
Do you have one parent with brown eyes,
you have another parent with brown eyes.
The child could have brown eyes, or
it could over write it and
have blue eyes, something like that.
Again, I'm not looking for
too much detail or depth,
it's just, do you know what
prototype is in JavaScript?
Because it's underneath everything we do,
and
I expect you to have some
baseline knowledge about that.
It doesn't have to be in depth,
but don't fumble on it [LAUGH].
Don't guess.
If you're guessing,
that's pretty easy to tell.
And a lot of times with these questions,
if it's a recruiter or things like that,
they're not necessarily super well
versed in UI engineering, they might be,
you never know.
But they're gonna have kind of a general
answer, and they're looking for
something that falls in that range.
Again, it's not a true or
false or right or wrong.
It's just talking about what
does this mean in JavaScript?
>> It's the current scope
you're in which can change and
if there is no scope,
that is the global window, object usually?
>> Perfect answer, exactly right.
I considered the global context of
everything that is available to access.
So all the objects and
functions are available to you
that are not locally defined.
Yeah, and
if you haven't thought about this kind of
high level abstract questions,
yeah, that's okay.
That's what this course is for.
What's the data structure of the DOM?
>> Tree.
>> Yes, it's a tree, that's it.
[LAUGH] Again, not a trick question,
just have you thought about this before?
What is a stack?
It's a data structure, right, yeah.
>> LIFO, FIFO.
Last in, first out versus first in,
first out.
>> Which one is which?
>> Stack is LIFO, cue is FIFO
>> Yes, LIFO, FIFO, Last in,
First Out is the stack,
First in, First Out as a cue.
Think about if you need a mental model.
You're standing in line, that's a cue.
The first person that gets there's first
one that leaves if it's a fair line
Stack is, it's reversed.
It's like you get line and then actually
it's people in the back that go first.
You're like, what, scammed again?
I hate going to [INAUDIBLE].
How you create these
structures in JavaScript?
>> Bulk and bush with work for Stack.
>> Yeah, it is an array pop and
push shift.
Yeah, how can you tell if an image
element is loaded on the page?
This one is a little more nuanced but
there's an onload element of Images You
can just say is it on, has it loaded?
It'll fire that call back.
All right, what are call() and apply()?
>> It's a way to call another method, but
usually use it if you have to change
the scope you're calling with.
I can't remember which is
which [INAUDIBLE] I put.
>> I never can either.
That's okay.
All I would wanna know on this question
is their ways of changing the scope
of the calling function.
Yeah, and call is a series of arguments
and applies an array of arguments.
Nice, we don't necessarily
need to apply as much anymore,
because we have props or
we have array spreading, things like that.
But it'd be good to know.
What is event validation?
So traditionally,
if you have event handlers in HTML,
you could apply an event handler to
every single element you wanna have.
Or using event delegation, you could say
I wanna have one event listener, and
that's at the top.
And when you click on something,
it just bubbles up to the parent
that handles the event.
That's an event delegation.
I would want someone to know this cuz
event listeners are really expensive on
a page cuz every time it renders,
gotta be like did something happen?
Did something happen?
So it's better to have one event handler
versus 60 for performance reasons.
Event delegation.
If you said something about bubbling,
that's also good to use.
What is a worker?
A worker is something you would use in
a browser to offload computationally
expensive work.
Three different thread cuz JavaScript is
single threaded, if you have something
that's like tactically prime to 10,000,
numbers, something you want to do that and
workers you're not blocking the UI,
cuz there's only one thread in JavaScript.
And that's when you use one as well.
All right, those appreciate questions.
These are questions that I've been asked,
that you may get asked and
that I can consider good
baseline knowledge of JavaScript.
I know the HTML ones are a little tougher
because we don't actually think in
that way, so those can be a little dicey.
But in general, I would expect everyone
to know these questions off the bat,
just kind of pop them off.
Again, not looking for
precise correct answers.
I just want that they have some
knowledge of what they're talking about.
But importantly, why I didn't ask
is I didn't ask trivia questions.
I didn't ask what object
plus array equals,
which I've been asked in an interview.
I don't know why.
That doesn't tell me anything.
It tells me they have some
weird funny knowledge.
But you know what's funny is,
you get trivia questions and
someone be like,
I read this weird trick about JavaScript.
We'll hack the news.
I'm gonna ask that to somebody.
Is that relevant to the job?
If they know that,
does that inform you of anything that
they can do other than they
know some trivia questions?
So if you're the interviewer,
don't ask trivia questions.
Ask questions that you know.
I see what I'm gonna face, its's even
real close, real closer, closer.
You're probably thinking
your interview is easy,
but that's because you already know
the answers to them, that's it.
That's my big rat.
Everybody says my interview,
my questions are easy.
My Christian questions are easy,
my interviews easy.
That's cause you already know the answer.
If you didn't know the answer,
would you be able to solve
your own interview questions?
Probably not, if we're being honest,
probably not.
If I'm being honest,
I've asked questions that I wouldn't even
know the answer to right off the bat.
If so, is that a valid interview question?
This is something I really want us
to take seriously as an industry.
Don't ask trivia questions.
Don't ask weird algorithm
questions that aren't relevant.
Ask questions that you
would know the answer to or
is necessary in your day to day working.
That's not much to ask, right?
That was the application,
the initial call.
That was a lot.
That was a lot of information already.
CATSA process interviewing is a grind,
it's about stamina, it's about endurance.
And as the interviewer,
what I wanna do is I wanna make
that process as easy as possible.
Interviews are not gonna be easy,
rhey're never gonna be easy.
They shouldn't be easy.
We get paid a lot of money for
we do, but at the end of the day I'm
not like bruised or bloody and sweaty.
Maybe my back hurts from eating too much
free food as I'm leaning over my computer.
But at the end of the day we get paid
a lot of money to do what we do,
interviews should not be easy,
they should be fulfilling.
Interviews should be like a first date,
pretty awkward, a little challenging,
you have to put your best face forward.
At the end, do you think if it works out,
you're yeah, that was really satisfying.
I think we got to know each other.
I think I wanna continue on
this journey with this person.
There you go on a second date.
That to me is what a interview should be.
It should be challenging and
rewarding at the same time, but
it shouldn't be frustrating.
Not too much to ask, right?